                            SNEmulDS release 0.6
                       (c) 1997-1999,2006-2007 by archeide
                    Includes CPU core from SnezziDS (by bubble2k)
	              and sound engine from PocketSPC (by gladius)
                          
  SNEmulDS is partially based on SNEmul, a SNES emulator for DOS
  and linux, which was the cooperative work of archeide & v0x.
  Take a look at the site of the DOS emulator: http://www.snemul.com/ds/
  SNEmulDS includes PocketSPC, a SPC song player made by gladius.
  PocketSPC website : http://pocketspc.pocketheaven.com/
  It also has integrated the fabulous CPU core from the equally 
  fabulous SnezziDS. SnezziDS website : 
  http://www.forwardcoding.com/projects/snezzids/snezzids.html
  
  GUI artworks have been made tichat! Many thanks...
  The icon have been made by Lestat! Thanks again

  1. DISCLAIMER

  THE SNEMULDS AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
  SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
  FITNESS FOR A CERTAIN PURPOSE; IN NO EVENT SHALL WE BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
  RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
  CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
  CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.  
  Short: use at your own risk.

  2. Introduction

  Nearly ten years after the heroic times of the first SNES emulators 
  (SNEmul was one of them), the new console made by Nintendo, the Nintendo DS,
  offer new opportunites to turn alive again all those old games which probaby
  made the Super NES the best 2D game system of all time.
  It was clear for me that i had to port my old emulator to the new console,
  because i wanted so hard to play my favorite SNES games on the tiny DS.
  There are already good emulators for the DS, but i wanted also to make my old
  project alive again, and remember those times where i lost
  nights tracking bugs in MARIO or Secret Of Mana!
    
  3. Installation and usage

  Current version of SNEmulDS needs a card reader (like M3, supercard, G6, 
  R4DS, NinjaDS, etc.)
  and a passkey/passcard (You should know how to get/use them) for slot-2
  devices.  
  
  <!> Note about DLDI
  
  At least the following devices should be supported thanks to the DLDI system 
  made by chishm:

    * DSLink (microSD Card)
    * Ewin2 (SD Card)
    * EZ Flash 4 (SD Card)
    * EZ Flash 5 (SD Card)
    * G6 Flash  (version 0.15)
    * M3 Adapter (Compact Flash)
    * M3 Adapter (SD card)
    * Max Media Dock (Compact Flash)
    * GBA Movie Player (Compact Flash)
    * GBA Movie Player (SD Card)
    * NEO Flash MK2 & MK3 (SD Card)
    * NEO2 (SD Card)
    * Ninja DS (SD Card)
    * R4(DS)- Revolution for DS, M3 Simply compatible
    * SuperCard (Compact Flash)
    * SuperCard DS (Slot-1)
    * SuperCard (SD Card)

  Take a look here: http://chishm.drunkencoders.com/DLDI/index.html
  You can patch SNEmulDS.nds to support others devices as long as those
  device have been made compatible with the DLDI system. 
  So you should visit this site regularly for update, if your device is not
  supported by SNEmulDS yet!
  
  <!> SNEMUL.CFG is very important don't forget to put it in the root directory
  Now you have a snemul.cfg file to put in the root(which means "initial")
  directory of your card. You can choose the directory where
  you put your ROMS, instead of SNES as said in the following lines.
  
  - Create a SNES directory in the root directory of your card,
  - Put all your SNES ROMs in this directory,
  - Optionnaly patch SNEmulDS.nds with a DLDI patcher
  - Put SNEmulDS.nds or one of the SNEmulDS_<your device name here> in 
    the _root_ directory of your card,

  
  - Launch the game,
  - A list of all the SNES games appears, you can scroll with "up" and "down"
  - Tap on the desired game and press START to launch the game.
  

  During the game, a menu is displayed with the following items:
  # SelectROM: show the content of a directory list to select another ROM
  # Options: show the option menu. There you can disable background,
    select the BG3 mode (see below) or the relative scroll height for
    BG1 and BG2, enable or disable the Vblank waiting, and enable/disable speed
    hacks.
  # Load State: restore one of your 8 game states. (see below)
  # Save State: save your current game state. You can save up to 8 game states
    for each game. States are saved in files put in the SNES directory along 
    with your ROM (with extension .SM1 .SM2 ...). 
  # Reset: reset the game
  # Save SRAM: save battery-saved cartridge RAM. The SRAM is saved in a file put
    in the SNES directory along with your ROM (the file has extension '.SRM').
  # SPC jukebox: play your favorite songs (from SPC files in your SNES directory)
  # GFX config: show the GFX config menu. (see below)
  # Debug: show debug informations (not really interesting stuff)

  The BG3 mode selection allows the BG3 (in most games, a later containing only
  static informations) to be displayed entirely on the DS screen, even if it is
  bigger with a real SNES. It can be useful in some games. In fact, the middle of
  the layer is crushed, so you'll lose information in some games.
 
  SNES Mouse Emulation
  --------------------
  
  You can select the mouse emulation mode with START+L+R+LEFT, then the bottom
  screen and the upper screen switch. You use the stylus to move the mouse
  cursor.
  
  -> You can also switch the screen without selecting mouse emulation mode
  using START+L+R+RIGHT.
  
  Currently there are two methods of emulation:

  # One for all games that uses SNES mouse. It compute the distance between
  two stylus "click" to emulate the move of the mouse.
  This is not accurate and some games like Populous II use non linear moving,
  so the mouse cursor doesn't follow the stylus.

  # Another method modifies directly the variables in RAM where the game stores
  the X and Y positions of cursor. This way, the mouse cursor moves accurately.
  But i have to search for each game, where is this information 
  (that's quite easy with a debugger anyway).
  The X Y address are stored in snemul.cfg. You need to have this file
  up-to-date.
  
  For both methods, the D-pad is used to select the way the stylus emulate
  the mouse:
  - press LEFT(or Y): when the touch screen is pressed, the mouse is moved to this
    point and the mouse's left button is pressed
  - press RIGHT(or A): when the touch screen is pressed, the mouse is moved to this
    point and the mouse's right button is pressed
  - press DOWN(or B): when the touch screen is pressed, the mouse is moved to this
    point
   When the touch screen is not pressed, the buttons are released and the cursor
   doesn't move.
   
  Another option is available with first method: 
  - press UP (or X) and press the touchscreen at the same time :
    the stylus calibrates to this point. 
    Use this if the mouse cursor doesn't follow the stylus correctly.
    
  In mouse mode, you can also scroll the entire screen (all backgrounds)
  with:
  - L(or R) + UP(or X)  : scroll up the screen
  - L(or R) + DOWN(or B) : scroll down the screen
  
  GFX config
  ----------
  
  This screen contains several options to try:
  
  - Priority per tile : in the SNES hardware, each background layer have 
   two sub layers : high and low priority. The DS 2D hardware doesn't have
   this feature, but have one more background layer. This option uses
   tha additional layer to emulatoe the priority per tile for one SNES background.
   You can choose between none, BG1 or BG2. Warning: This option can corrupt GFX or
   make some other tiles disappear.

  - BG3 block priority : this option emulate the priority per tile for BG3
    by guessing, for each line, if the map contains more high or more low
    priority tiles, and then change the priority of the BG3 for each line.
    This option is not perfect yet, and some text may disappear.
    This option only work in automatic mode.
    
  - BG1 / BG2 / BG3 / BGX(low) : change the priority of this layer. THe right
    part of screen, can select between automatic or not.
    
  - Sprite1 ... : change the priority of the sprites. SNES has 4 priorities
    like DS, but it can be useful to change the prioriry bijection.
    
  - (Fix) : the number are register 212C 212D 2130 3130, tap on this 
    part of screen to clear the GFX buffers and fix most GFX garbages on screen.
    
  - <Save> : save those parameters in the CFG file    

 
  4. What is implemented

  - 65816 CPU (bugs remain, and 6502 emulation is not supported)
  - LoROM/HiROM support
  - Tile by tile graphics engine (broken as of 0.5 alpha)
  - Line by line graphics engine (90% complete)
  - Graphic Mode 1, 2, 3, 4, 7
  - Graphics Modes 0,5,6 are implemented but not correct yet
  - 8x8, 16x16 tiles (16x16 may have problem with large screen modes)
  - 32x32, 64x32, 32x64, 64x64 screen modes
  - 8x8, 16x16, 32x32, 64x64 sprites
  - BG priorities (still buggy)
  - Full DMA support
  - HDMA support (uncomplete)
  - HIRQ/VIRQ/NMI interrupts
  - PAL/NTSC detection
  - Subscren Add/sub for BG/sprites/BACK (not 100% correct yet)
  - Large ROM support (> 3Mbytes), even for slot-1 card users
  - SRAM support
  - Snapshots(State save) support
  - SPC700 CPU (from PocketSPC by gladius)
  - Sound DSP (from PocketSPC by gladius)
  - Incomplete Line by line graphics engine (for MODE 7 game)
  - Mode 7 effects
  - Correct BACK color support (look like ok)
  - SNES Mouse Emulation
  - Incomplete priority per tile (difficult task :-()  

 
What is not supported, but will be soon:
  - Super scope emulation
  - 512 horizontal resolution with Mode 5 
  - Window clipping
  - Mosaic effects 
  - Correct Sprite priorities
  - Palette alteration between scanlines (only palette 0 is correct)
  - Fixed color Add/sub for BG/sprites/BACK
  - Window color clipping
  
 
What will *maybe* be supported someday: 
  - Super FX
  - DSP1
  - DSP2...

Other interesting features to be implemented:
  - Cheats editor, Cheats search

  - Memory, Palette viewer
  - Debugger
  - Tiles/Sprites editor(designe your own sprites with the pen ;))


  5. Misc

  You can ask me question (not about SNES ROMs of course) at:
  archeide@yahoo.com
  I don't have a lot of free time, so don't expect that i will
  answer to all your questions.
  
  A web site exists, you can get the latest version of SNEmulDS at:
  http://www.snemul.com/ds/

  If you are interested in working on this project, please tell me!
  I am especially interested in people who would like to work on a GUI for
  the subscreen! (But beware, you'll just have 48kbytes of VRAM for you :p)
  And if you have knowledge in ARM assembler and DS low level programming,
  i'm also interested ;)
  

  6. FAQ

  - My graphic are all corrupted, flashing, ugly, what can i do ?
  
    Go in the GFX config, and try to change options. Tap on "fix" zone
    to clear the GFX cache.   
    Try to enable "Wait for Vblank" in the options.
    You may also need to change the background layers order. 
    You can do it in the options (instead of "Automatic layers") or by
    pressing START+L+R+UP (LEFT AND RIGHT side buttons).
    You can return to automatic layers by pressing START+LEFT+RIGHT+DOWN.
    Another option allow disabling or enabling background layers.
  
  - Why SNEmulDS sound is bad ?
  
    SNEmulDS is not correctly synchronized with the SPC700 engine.
    Some new options in configuration file allow you to improve
    the sound (see SoundPortSync in CFG file)
    You can try the SPC jukebox instead, musics should be better.

  - Why SNEmulDS is so slow ?

    Try to play with speed hacks in Option menu (Last item). Some games are slower
    than other, because of intensive use of CPU and GFX.
    Expect speed improvement in the future
  
  - How can i speed up SNEmulDS ?
  
    Make sure you are in "No vblank" mode in Options, and that "Speed hack"
    is in "Full speed".
    
  - Why my game seems slow whereas SNEmulDS says the speed is over 80% ? 
  
    Most of the time, it comes from the speed hack. Not enough CPU cycles
    are given to the game, and it needs to use two frames instead of 
    one. Set speed hacks "No speed hack" should help.

  - My game is too fast! I can't even play it !
    Enable "Wait for Vblank" in the options.
  
  - My game doesn't even start! Your emu sucks!?
  
    Choose "No speed hack" and/or sound emulation in Options menu. 
    Surprisely, some games need to be in "Full speed hacks" mode to launch
    (like SUPER BOMBERMAN).
  
  - I lost all my game progress !!! I will kill you!
 
    Don't forget that SNEmulDS doesn't save SRAM automatically.
    You have to tap "Save SRAM" in the main menu to save your game progress.
    You can also use save states.

  - Save states don't work :(

    I'm sorry but the current FAT librairies doesn't support
    saving for all cards. Use of DS SRAM is a future feature
    that may be help you (short: wait for next release).
    TO BE PEACEFUL: writing to card is not perfect, and your saved state
    can be corrupted, so you should save your game in several slots!!

  - How i can use my own ZSNES/SNES9X save states ?
 
    I think I will make a ZST->SML translator in the first time...
    In the future, there will be direct compatibility with ZSNES
    format. (short: wait!)
    Anyway, you should be able to use your ".SRM" created by
    other emus. Be sure it is not compressed. Simply put the
    SRM file in the SNES directory, along with your ROM.

  - Why do you not support "packing", my card/flasher is not
    working with SNEmulDS?
   
    SNEmul philosophy is "easy to use".
    That means no pre-script, no packer, no patches, etc. 
    You put your ROMS, SRAMs, save states directly in your SNES directory and that's all.
    Moreover, by using a "real" filesytem development of specific features is much easier
    (especially large save states, SRAM saving, very large ROMs (4Mo) and  multi ROMs support).
    I will surely work on a "packed" version later, but this is not 
    my first goal.

  8. Credits
  
  Thanks to bubble2k for his advice and help and his incredible SnezziDS  
  Thanks to gladius for his amazing PocketSPC engine!
  Thanks to loopy and FluBBa for making the dream come true by making SNESAdvance
  Thanks to AlekMaul for making the GBFS version!
  Merci à Lestat pour son joli icône et ses graphismes (que j'ai jamais
  le temps d'utiliser !!)
  Thanks to wraggy and dantheman from DCEMU.co.uk for translating my initial
  message from PlayerAdvance.fr and making this emulator alive again!
  Thanks to dantheman for his great help for testing and for new users :)
  Thanks also to Spark for his precious help
  Thanks to UCON64 for CRC32 and Allegro for COnfiguration file
  Thanks to Lick for his LibRAM (Extended RAM support)!
  I took several ideas from DragonMinded and his DSOrganize font library :)

  SNEmulDS has been translated in many languages, thanks to all translators
  and correctors especially:
	ApprentiSorcier (japanse), PekePeke (japanse), scognito (Italian),
	Zeroshcr (Spanish), MsK (Portuguese), Sonucais (Catalan), mog123 (Polish+Japanese),
	Snake (German), Deng (Korean), akisz001(Greek), Jesper 'IroniC' Olsson (Swedish),
	Martin Kool (Dutch), Kralle (Danish), Gromov (Russian)
  If I forget you, send me an email to tell me so ;)
  
  Old good SNEmul emulator engine was made with the help of:
  The Teach        - Thanks for the great help
  Trepalium        - The TrepSNES sources helped us a lot...
  Y0shi            - Thanks for all your docs and your support...
  (and all the other guys who made SNES docs)
  Pan/ANTHROX      - They made the MODE 7 demo
  zsKnight         - Thanks for the great help
  Lestat           - Thanks for your help
  ZoOp             - Thanks for LoROM/HiROM informations, and beta testing
  Lord ESNES       - Thanks for your mails
  Jerremy Koot, Gary Handerson, Lestat, _Demo_... and all the other SNES9X
  contributors. 
  The SNES9X sources have helped us a lot!


  Greets and good luck for all the other authors of SNES emulator:
  ZSNES, SNES9X, SNEeSe, NLKE, SnezziDS, SNESDS, SnesDs....
  
  SNEmulDS uses the chishm's LIBFAT / DLDI, devkitpro v20 from wintermute,
  and libnds!
  Thanks for all their work for the DS developper community.
  
